--- 
layout: page 
title: Assignments 
permalink: /assignments/ 
---

For each assignment, detailed instructions and evaluation criteria are
provided as well as due dates. All assignments should be submitted to
the Drop Box in [Sakai](https://sakai.unc.edu/portal/site/inls500-001-fa2015 "Sakai site for INLS500-001")
before class (.pdf preferred). The main page of the syllabus contains
additional details on the [grading
scale](#grading "grading scale used for INLS 500")

Summary of due dates
--------------------

-   [\#1, Diary and Analysis of an Information-Seeking
    Event](#eventdiary) (20%)
    -   Description: due Tuesday, 15 September
    -   Final Diary and Analysis: due Tuesday, 13 October
-   [\#2, Evidence Summary](#evidencesummary) (15%)
    -   Sign up for presentation date: in class on Thursday, 20 August
    -   Title of article: due Tuesday, 25 August
    -   Evidence Summary (written, presented and online discussion): due on date selected by student
-   [\#3, System/Service Proposal](#proposal) (35%)
    -   Description of population and setting of interest: due Thursday, 17 September
    -   Intermediate deliverables:
        -   Preliminary literature search plan: due Tuesday, 19 September
        -   Preliminary client description: due Tuesday, 20 October
        -   Preliminary proposal description: due Tuesday, 27 October
    -   Final deliverable: due Tuesday, 11 November
-   [\#4, Analysis of Scholarly Communication](#scholcomm) (20%)
    -   Bibliography: due Thursday, 13 November
    -   Paper: due Thursday, 10 November at NOON
-   [Participation](#participation) (10%)

<span id="eventdiary"></span>Assignment 1: Diary and Analysis of an Information-Seeking Event (20%) {.assignment}
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This assignment is based on an assignment prepared by Dr. Verna
Pungitore, SLIS, Indiana University, with modifications by Professors
Wildemuth, Barreau, Gibson and other SILS instructors.

As information professionals, we are concerned with designing systems
and services that help our clients. For this assignment, you are the
client and you will keep a short diary over a period of hours or days
that covers an information-seeking experience with an identifiable
beginning and end. It does not have to be a unique event and it may or
may not have been resolved. You will write up what you thought, felt,
and did, and how you understand the experience based upon our readings
and discussions in class.

The objective of this assignment is to observe in detail and reflect
upon a concrete example of information-seeking and to analyse the
information-seeking process through the application of foundational
theories of information and library science.

### Deliverables

1.  <span class="assignmentname">Brief Description of Event </span>(10%,
    <span class="due">due Tuesday, 15 September</span>): Submit a one paragraph that
    contains a) a description of the event you intent to observe and b)
    how/why the event meets the required criteria.
2.  <span class="assignmentname">Final deliverables</span> (<span
    class="due">due Tuesday, 13 October</span>)
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Diary</span> (20%)
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Analysis of Information Seeking
        Event</span> (70%)

### Event Selection

A good event to select for this assignment will:

-   represent a real information need that your attempted to resolve
    through information-seeking
-   occur while you are working on this assignment
-   take place over a period of time (weeks vs. days).

In most cases, your problem should be more complex than finding a fact,
but there are situations when that type of problem is appropriate. For
example, "When did Americans first land on the moon?" is a
straightforward question that can be answered easily and it doesn't
offer much of a challenge for deciding where and how to look. However,
"When were the plans and strategy for America's Apollo missions to the
moon finalized?" is a more difficult question for most people. It
requires some knowledge of NASA's planning and approval process as well
as a slightly broader understanding of the space program. For NASA
historians and people who follow the space program closely, the second
question may be as straightforward as the first one, but for most
people, it will require more preparation.

As an example, consider the hypothetical situation that I am beginning
to plan a vacation over the winter break and I want to make my
arrangements before the Thanksgiving Break). I have a couple of places
in mind, but I need to do some more research about places I can go,
things I can do and food I can eat. I search online, read a couple guide
books and talk to people. Through an iterative process that took place
over several weeks, I gained additional focus and eventually selected
where to travel and my itinerary.

### The Diary

Start by describing your information need. Take notes or record your
experience in some way. Try to capture as much detail about the process
as possible.

Your diary should describe your information seeking event, including
behaviors, strategies, thoughts, and motivations. Your diary should
capture as much detail about your experience as possible, but does not
have to be formal or very structured (it must be comprehensible at some
level). The goal of the diary is to provide chronology and context for
the analysis. Diary entries should be made as you are going through the
information seeking process.

Questions to consider as you are reflecting on your experience

-   How did you know when you needed to look for information?
-   What steps did you take and what motivated you along the way?
-   Did you make any incidental discoveries that influenced your
    behavior?
-   When and why did you finally stop looking (or are you still
    looking)?
-   How did your emotions affect the search process?

The diary does not need to be neat and orderly, but it should provide
enough detail so that I can tell what you thought, did, and felt. It's
more important that you record what's happening and what you're
thinking/feeling as it's happening than that you present it neatly. It
only needs to be neat enough so that you can interpret and remember what
happened for your later analysis of the event.

While the diary is a necessary deliverable for this assignment, it will
play only a minor role in the grading. I will refer to it, as needed, to
understand and evaluate your analysis of the event.

### The Analysis

Assess which (if any) of the information seeking and use models we have
discussed in class apply to your situation - as motivation, as
information-seeking process, or as use. Write a brief report (3-4
single-spaced pages) that interprets the experience. Concentrate on
analyzing what happened instead of recounting each step. The goal here
is to demonstrate that you can use the terminology, and apply the
concepts learned in class to your own information seeking behavior. For
example, it is more important to hear your reactions to what you did
than to hear what you did. Questions to consider:

-   How important was the information to you?
-   Where did you search/what sources did you consult? Why?
-   What barriers or surprises did you experience?
-   If you consulted systems or online sources, describe the interaction
    and why it worked, or did not.
-   If you consulted other people, describe the interaction and how you
    were able to convey your need to this person.
-   Why do you think your experience was a successful (or unsuccessful)
    one?
-   What did you learn that you did not know beforehand?
-   What would you do differently if a similar problem arises in the
    future?

Be sure to relate your observations to readings and discussions from
class. Cite them as appropriate.

### Evaluation criteria

Grades will be based upon the quality and depth of your analysis of the
experience. A description of the need and what motivated it, any
obstacles you experienced, sources used, tasks performed, and results10/14
obtained along with your evaluation of those results should be included
in the paper.

Your ability to apply multiple concepts, models and theories, and use
the terminology learned in class to describe your information behavior
will determine a large portion of your grade. Please remember that the
diary will be used as a description of your search process, so large
amounts of time/space within the analysis should not be spent on
retelling.

While this paper is relatively informal in style, it should be formatted
using APA style and should include citations to the literature as
appropriate.

<span id="teamproj2"></span>Assignment 2: Evidence Summary (15%) {.assignment}
----------------------------------------------------------------

This assignment is modeled on the evidence summaries regularly published
in [*Evidence-Based Library & Information
Practice*](http://ejournals.library.ualberta.ca/index.php/EBLIP/index).

Each evidence summary focuses on a particular research study that has
implications for the practice of the information professions. While most
of the evidence summaries in the journal do focus on the practice of
librarianship, this approach can (and will, in this assignment) be
extended to any information practice setting that you want to explore
for your future career.

The objective of this assignment is to analyze an empirical study of
information and library science, summarize the most important parts of
the study, and comment on the implications of the study's conclusions
for practice.

### Deliverables

1.  <span class="assignmentname">Sign up for topic and date</span> in
    class <span class="due">on Thursday, 20 August</span>
2.  <span class="assignmentname">Select article</span> (5%, <span
    class="due">due Tuesday, 25 August</span>): Add the title of the article you
    select in a new conversation in the Sakai forum called
    Evidence Summaries.
3.  <span class="assignmentname">Evidence summary</span> (<span
    class="due">due on student-selected date</span>):
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Written</span> (55%): Before class,
        submit your written evidence summary and a copy of the study.
    -   <span class="assignmentname">In-class presentation</span> (20%):
        Present a 3-4 minute summary of evidence summary and
        implications for practice
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Sakai discussion</span> (20%):
        Submit forum post after class.

### Article Selection

Your first step is to select an article that provides evidence that
you'd like to summarize. Acceptable articles meet the following
criteria:

-   it is an empirical study (i.e., the authors systematically collected
    data related to their research question and reported their findings)
-   it is a topic/question within the scope of this course
-   it is not be on our required reading list (articles on the
    additional readings list are acceptable)
-   it has not have been published in *EBLIP*. Be sure to check before
    you select an article.

If you have questions about whether a particular article meets these
criteria, please check with me prior to beginning the assignment. Be
sure to create a conversation in the Evidence Summaries forum in Sakai
for your article.

### Writing the evidence summary

An evidence summary is written in a very structured format - basically
an extended abstract. It begins with brief descriptions of the study's
objective(s), its design, its setting, its subjects/participants, and
the methods used to carry it out. Then it reports the main results and
the main conclusions that can be drawn from those results. Finally, the
author of the summary comments on the implications of those conclusions
for practice in the relevant information setting. Additional references
pertinent to the commentary should be cited, as appropriate; these can
include references in the original article but should also include
relevant references not cited in the article being examined. Be sure to
read several articles from EBLIP to get a sense for their structure.

The full evidence summary, excluding title, study citation, and
additional references, should be 1000-1500 words. Submit a copy of the
study when you submit your summary.

### Sharing the evidence summary: presenting and engaging others in discussion

You will present a brief (3-4 minute) overview of the article you read
and summarized in class and engage your classmates in an online
discussion of the article.

During the appropriate class session, you will be asked to present a
brief overview of the article you read: What were its main points? What
did you learn from it that was pertinent to the topic being discussed in
class that day? The presentation will be informal, in the sense that it
will involve no slides and will be done from your seat in class. This
presentation should take no more than 3-4 minutes of class time.

On the same day as the presentation, you will post a message to the
class discussion forum (in Sakai). Your posting should be around 300-500
words and you should attach both the full evidence summary and the
original article.

Your post should not only provide a summary and commentary on the
article, but it should also aim to promote further discussion of the
article among your classmates. To achieve this goal, your posting should
conclude with one or two specific questions that you expect will
stimulate discussion.

Some ideas for formulating effective discussion questions are available
at:

-   [Designing effective
    discussion questions.](http://www.stanford.edu/dept/CTL/cgi-bin/docs/ta/pdf/Master_effective_questions.pdf)
    Stanford University Center for Teaching and Learning, \[2002\].
-   Kelly, R. [Questioning styles for more effective
    discussion boards.](http://www.facultyfocus.com/articles/asynchronous-learning-and-trends/questioning-styles-for-more-effective-discussion-boards/)
    *Faculty Focus,* 2009. (See the section on "Types of questions".)
-   Cashin, W.E. [Answering and
    asking questions.](http://www.theideacenter.org/sites/default/files/Idea_Paper_31.pdf)
    Kansas State University Center for Faculty Evaluation &
    Development, 1995. (See Section III. Asking questions.)
-   Saxe, A. [Tapping into higher-level thinking in
    online courses.](http://www.facultyfocus.com/articles/online-education/tapping-into-higher-level-thinking-in-online-courses/)
    *Faculty Focus*, 2010. (See the section on "Establishing guidelins
    for online discussions".)
-   [Discussions.](http://www.cmu.edu/teaching/designteach/design/instructionalstrategies/discussions.html)
    Carnegie Mellon University, Eberly Center for Teaching
    Excellence, n.d. (See the section, "Ask good questions".)

You are also responsible for monitoring the discussion of your article
over the next week after your summary is presented/posted. Continue to
ask follow-up questions or post responses to messages from your
classmates. In other words, actively moderate the online discussion.

### Evaluation criteria

The evidence summary will be evaluated on the accuracy of its
description of the original article, your understanding of the
conclusions of the study being examined (their validity, their
pertinence to particular information practice settings), and the depth
and validity of your commentary on the study being examined.

The presentation and the online discussion will be evaluated on the
clarity and quality of the information presented. In addition, finishing
the class presentation on time and the quality of the online discussion
questions will be considered.

<span id="proposal"></span>Assignment 3: System/Service Proposal (35%) {.assignment}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this assignment, you will develop a proposal for a new service for a
particular client population of a particular information organization.
Some examples might include the development of a public library
instruction program for retirees in the community, new ways to track IT
support questions related to a litigation support system in a law firm,
or a new institutional repository intended to handle the multimedia
materials created by performing arts faculty on a university campus.
(These examples are intended to be suggestive, not comprehensive or
restrictive.)

The first step will be to identify the particular client population and
learn as much about them as possible. This analysis will be
evidence-based, i.e., it will rely on prior studies and/or descriptions
of the client population and their information behaviors as reported in
the literature. In class, we will discuss the role of evidence in making
practice-based decisions and plans, based on our reading of
Koufogiannakis' (2013) keynote address at EBLIP7.

To support your analysis, you will be expected to assemble and assess
the relevant literature. The methods by which you search for the
literature to underpin your analysis will be documented in detail in
your final paper. In addition, your final paper will include a summary
of your findings about the population of interest.

The next step is to plan a service or system that would be useful to the
client population. The service or system may have been implemented with
some other population in the past or in some other organizational
setting; you will need to establish that it is novel for your particular
population and setting. In particular, the rationale for your proposal
should be clearly connected to your (new) knowledge about the client
population.

The objective of this assignment is to use empirical evidence about the
information behaviors of a client population to plan and justify a new
and useful service or system to support the clients' information
behaviors.

### Deliverables

1.  <span class="assignmentname">Description of population and setting
    of interest </span>(10%, <span class="due">due Thursday, 17 September</span>): Submit
    a short overview describing the setting you've selected (one
    paragraph), defining/describing the client group based on your
    current knowledge (one paragraph) and your rationale for selecting
    this setting and client group (one paragraph).
2.  Intermediate deliverables (30%):
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Preliminary literature search
        plan</span> (10%, <span class="due">due Tuesday, 19 September</span>): Submit a
        plan for identifying the literature to include in your review
        including list of databases/sources to be searched, the search
        strategies to be used, and the inclusion/exclusion criteria to
        be used to evaluate the literature retrieved
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Preliminary client
        description</span> (10%, <span class="due">due Tuesday, 20 October</span>):
        Submit a detailed outline, a concept map/matrix, or a similar
        sketch of what you've learned about the population including the
        preliminary list of references to the articles you're using
        as evidence.
    -   <span class="assignmentname">Preliminary proposal
        description</span> (10%, <span class="due">due Tuesday, 27 October</span>):
        one-paragraph description of the system or service you
        will propose.

3.  <span class="assignmentname">Final proposal</span> (60%, <span
    class="due">due Tuesday, 11 November</span>):
    -   Proposal memo: a 2-page (single-spaced) memo to the leader of
        your information organization, presenting your proposal and
        providing arguments supporting its adoption.
    -   Client description: A brief description (4-6
        pages, single-spaced) of the client population and its
        information behaviors, plus the citations to the evidence used.
    -   Literature search strategy (as appendix to Proposal): a listing
        of the databases/resources you used to learning about the client
        population, and the specific search strategies/terms used
        in each.

Each step in this process of developing the proposal package is
described in more detail below.

### Identify the population and setting of interest

As an information professional, you will regularly be expected to
develop a new service or system to support a particular set of clients
to perform a particular information-related task. You'll get some
practice with that professional responsibility while completing this
assignment.

For the purposes of the assignment, choose a setting and client group of
particular interest to you. The setting might be a library in a
particular institutional setting (e.g., a public library in a mid-sized
town in NC or a library in an elementary school serving kindergarten
through third grade), a system development team (e.g., the unit
responsible for a pharmaceutical company's knowledge management
activities or the unit responsible for a financial services company's
human resources system), or some other setting in which information
professionals are employed.

You will also choose a particular client group relevant to that setting.
In the examples of organizations just provided, corresponding client
groups might be the teenagers that could potentially use the public
library, second-grade teachers, members of the pharmaceutical company's
marketing division, and hiring managers/supervisors distributed
throughout the financial services company. So that this assignment will
be most useful to you, I would encourage you to select a setting and
client group that you anticipate/hope will be part of your professional
future.

<span class="assignmentname">Intermediate deliverable</span>: You will
write one paragraph describing the setting you've selected, and one
paragraph defining/describing the client group (based on your current
knowledge). In addition, write one paragraph about ***why*** you
selected this setting and client group.

### Assemble and assess the evidence related to the population and setting of interest

You will begin by planning the ways in which you will assemble the
relevant evidence. You should decide which databases/sources you will
search and what search strategy(ies) you will use in each. You should
specify inclusion and exclusion criteria for which studies will be
included in your summary. You should aim for a comprehensive set of
evidence to support your proposal. Start with those articles that are
most core to your interests (i.e., directly addressing some aspect of
your selected population within a similar setting) and work your way out
from there. You may need to adjust the scope of your population as you
learn more about them; please discuss such adjustments with me as you go
along.

[Bates (1989, p.412)](schedule-500-f15.html#Bates1989) suggests a
variety of ways to identify relevant literature; these can serve as a
guide for your own literature searching. They of course include subject
searches in relevant databases, but they also include footnote chasing
and citation searching, author searching, and browsing journal tables of
contents and bookshelves that might be particularly fruitful. You are
expected to incorporate all or most of these methods in your own
searching.

The process of searching the literature will help you to identify
possibilities for a new service or system that can be the focus of your
proposal. For example, you may have focused on elderly users of public
libraries. Studies of their current information use may conclude that
they are interested in accessing more information about current
politics, but are hampered from reading current materials by decreasing
visual abilities. In such a situation, you may propose a program for
loaning e-readers to the library's clients, with easy interactions for
increasing the font size.

After you've assembled some evidence (i.e., articles or publications),
you will need to assess them for their quality, relevance and usefulness
for your purposes. Your quality criteria might include such
characteristics as the validity of the research design, the quality and
size of the sample included in the study, the validity of the analysis
conducted, and the credibility of the conclusions as they relate to the
underlying data. Your relevance/usefulness criteria might include such
characteristics as the match between your population of interest and the
study sample, and the similarity of the study context and your own
setting of interest. Additional criteria may also apply, as you make
decisions about which evidence to weigh most heavily in developing your
proposal.

There will be a lot of variability in the number of articles and other
materials you might use for this assignment, but here is a bit of
guidance on scope/scale: I would expect that you might identify hundreds
of potentially useful documents through your literature search; I would
expect that you would closely examine the abstracts of over 100
documents; I would expect that you would examine the full text of 30-60
articles; I would expect that you would identify and read 20-30 articles
to be cited in your summary of the characteristics of your selected
population.

<span class="assignmentname">Intermediate deliverable</span>: You will
develop a preliminary plan for identifying the literature to include in
your review. The plan should include the list of databases/sources to be
searched, the search strategies to be used, and the inclusion/exclusion
criteria to be used to evaluate the literature retrieved.

<span class="assignmentname">Final deliverable</span>: In an appendix to
your final proposal, you will list each database searched and provide
the details of the search terms/strategies used and the number of items
retrieved with each strategy *for each database/source*.You should also
describe your inclusion/exclusion criteria (e.g., range of years or
other limits you placed on your searches) and the criteria you used to
make judgments about the relevance or usefulness of the items you
selected. This appendix should be a bulleted list or outline format,
rather than narrative. There's no limit on its length, but it is likely
to be 1-3 pages, single-spaced.

### Extracting and synthesizing knowledge

As you identify and assess the relevant evidence about your population
of interest, you will be developing your own knowledge about that
population and their information interactions within the context of your
chosen setting. As an appendix to your proposal, you will summarize what
you learned. What do we know about their general characteristics? What
do we know about their information needs, their information seeking,
their use of information, and the context in which all these information
behaviors occur? Begin your summary with a revised version of the
original description/definition of the population and setting that you
created at the beginning of this assignment, to provide a bit of
context. Then provide a summary of what you know about that population.
Be sure to provide details about the population that will support your
proposal.

Intermediate deliverable: Provide a detailed outline, a concept
map/matrix, or a similar sketch of what you've learned about the
population. Include the preliminary list of references to the articles
you're using as evidence.

Final deliverable: In an appendix to your final proposal, summarize our
current knowledge about your population of interest, particularly in
connection with your selected setting and the focus of your proposal.
This appendix should be 4-6 pages, single-spaced. The list of references
should be included on separate pages.

### Proposing the development of a new system or service

The purpose of the investigations you've done for this assignment is to
understand the population of interest well enough to design and develop
a new system or service that will be useful to them in addressing some
of their information needs. Based on what you've learned about your
selected population, you will propose such a system or service. It does
not have to be the first of its type in the world, but it should be
plausible that it has not yet been implemented within your chosen
setting.

As Koufogiannakis (2013) points out, information work occurs within
organizational settings, so an initial proposal is not the same as
agreement to implement that proposal. Thus, your proposal will need to
"sell" your idea to your colleagues (or at least your supervisor, to
carry forward). You must describe the system or service you're
proposing, but you also must persuasively argue that it will serve an
important purpose in the lives of the population of interest and that it
will be feasible for your institution to implement it. The first of
those sets of arguments will be based on logical connections back to the
summary of the characteristics of the population; don't repeat all the
details in your proposal, but do clearly connect the proposal to the
findings in your summary of the population's characteristics. The second
set of arguments will be based on the practical considerations within
your imagined setting; be realistic but not pessimistic.

The proposal will be written in the form of a memo, from you to the
leader of your information organization. It should be no longer than 2
single-spaced pages.

<span class="assignmentname">Intermediate deliverable</span>: Provide a
one-paragraph description of the system or service you will propose.

<span class="assignmentname">Final proposal package</span>: The final
proposal package will consist of:

-   the memo proposing the system or service
-   a summary of our current knowledge about the user population (4-6
    pages, single-spaced), plus the list of references used as evidence;
    and
-   the listing of your methods for conducting the literature review,
    including which databases were searched, the search strategies used,
    number of items retrieved with each, and your
    selection/relevance criteria.

### Evaluation criteria

The final memo will be evaluated based on the thoroughness and rigor of
the literature review methods, the quality of the synthesis of the
literature included in the summary of your population's characteristics,
the logic connecting those findings to your proposal, the usefulness,
originality and feasibility of your proposal, and the clarity of
expression of the final product.

<span id="scholcomm"></span>Assignment 4: In-Depth Analysis of an Example of Scholarly Communication (20%) {.assignment}
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To be completed in teams of 2-4 people. Teams will be formed in class on
**Thursday, November 6**.

In this assignment, you will work with your team to review and reflect
on an example of scholarly communication. Specifically, your team will
choose and analyze a set of related scholarly articles, including
references and citations from, to, and among them.

### Deliverables

1.  <span class="assignmentname">Bibliography </span>(10%, <span
    class="due">due Thursday, 13 November</span>)
2.  <span class="assignmentname">Paper</span> (90%, <span
    class="due">due Thursday, 10 November at 15:00 (3:00pm)</span>)

### Selecting the articles

Choose a small set of articles (at least one for each member of your
team, with a minimum of 3 articles for the team) from a concept area or
research area of particular interest to the team. The set can include
one or more of the articles from class (required or optional readings),
one or more of the articles cited in something you're reading for class,
or it can include a different set of articles altogether. Any scholarly
articles within the scope of the topic area of INLS 500 are eligible for
inclusion.

The set of articles should include several different authors or research
groups. While some overlap in authorship is acceptable, selecting the
entire set from the works of one principal investigator or team leader
is not appropriate for this assignment. Please see me if you have
questions about whether the set of articles you've selected meets this
criterion.

The articles should have been published sometime between 1960-2010. The
reason for  choosing older papers is that it often takes two years or
more for  papers to be cited in the literature and their potential
impact to be visible. In addition, one or more of the articles should
have been deemed significant. In other words, it/they must have been
cited at least 20 times in the scholarly literature since being
published. It is also required that each article in the set be directly
linked to at least one other article in the set, i.e., it must cite or
be cited by at least one other article in the set.

Intermediate deliverable: Submit a bibliography of the articles your
team has identified for this analysis (citation and abstract).

### Analysis of the articles

Write an analysis of each article in your set. The analysis should
reflect your team's impressions of the paper with respect to the
article's structure and content. The review should describe what you
found useful in the article, what you liked about it, what the article's
deficiencies or limitations are, and how the article has influenced your
thinking about the field or about practice. You should relate your
discussion to other readings or topics from the class.

Pay particular attention to the visual elements of the paper - how it is
structured, illustrated, and how the ideas are presented. How successful
was the author (or authors) in making an argument or conveying their
ideas? What appealed to you about the presentation (structure,
illustrations, writing style, length, level of detail, etc.)? How much
of the article's appeal was due to your own point of view, preferences,
or familiarity with the topic? Who was the intended audience for the
paper and how is this made evident?

Note: It may be more fun to be critical, but one of the goals of this
assignment is to recognize that the author is trying to make a point, to
convey information that he/she/they believe is important, so it is
important to appreciate that and place your comments in context.
Consider the target audience when assessing the appropriateness of form
and content. When the authors have failed in their effort, be precise
about how they failed and offer suggestions for improvement.

### Analysis of the scholarly context of the article

To understand the scholarly context of this article, you will analyze
its references and the citations to this paper.

Begin by examining the reference lists in your selected papers. How old
are the citations? Who wrote the work that the author(s) cited? Is the
author's (or authors') prior work cited? In what journals or other media12/11 12pm
were the references published? What clues do the references give you
about the purpose of the paper or the intended audience? How much
overlap is there between the reference lists of the several articles in
your selected set?

Your next step is to discover who has cited the papers you selected. You
may check the following online citation indexes: ISI Web of Science
(available online through the UNC Library e-research tools), Scopus
(available online through the UNC Library e-research tools), Google
Scholar, CiteSeer X (from Penn State University), the ACM Digital
Library (for some technical papers), and/or other online databases that
might include your paper and that include citation data. At a minimum,
conduct citation searches in (1) the ISI Web of Science database or
Scopus and (2) at least one of the other citation databases. Be sure to
keep track of which citations were discovered in which database.

Write up your citation analysis. How many times has each of the selected
articles been cited? Who has cited each? Are there examples of
bibliographic coupling (i.e., where two or more of your selected
articles are citing the same article/document)? In what
fields/disciplines are your selected articles cited? What do these
citations tell you about the importance (or lack of importance) of this
work? If you feel the paper has not received the attention it deserves,
reflect on why that may be so. If the paper has received more attention
than it deserves, reflect on why that may be so. What do the citations
tell you about the scholarly network in which the author(s) work?

Finally, examine the context of citations to your papers. Choose at
least one citation to each of your selected papers and examine it
directly. Find the point(s) in each paper at which the selected paper is
cited. In which section of the paper is it cited? What does the citing
author say about it? Is it cited in combination with any other papers?
What does the citation context tell you about the influence of your
selected paper? In addition, analyze in a similar way any instances that
you found in which multiple papers from your set of selected papers were
cited in the same article/document.

In evaluating the citations, what, if anything, did you learn about
citation behaviors or about the citation sources themselves? (Feel free
to graphically represent some of your findings, if that would be useful
in discussing them.) Based on your analysis, are there particular
sources, categories of readers, topics, or functions that may have found
the paper particularly useful?

### Writing up your analysis

Write up what your team has learned in a brief paper, 6-8 pages,
single-spaced. Be sure to include the references to all the specific
papers that you'll want to discuss (i.e., the original set of papers,
possibly one or more references from each, and several examples of
papers citing papers in your selected set). Your writing style for this
paper should be relatively formal/academic, in comparison with other
assignments in this course.

### Evaluation criteria

Grades will be based on evidence of your understanding of the selected
papers, the depth and thoroughness of your analysis of the set of papers
and their scholarly context, evidence of your understanding of scholarly
communication and scholars' use of information, and clarity of
expression.

<span id="participation"></span>Class Participation (10%) {.assignment}
---------------------------------------------------------

This class is a cooperative venture toward which you are encouraged and
expected to contribute in a way that demonstrates your understanding of
the material. I expect you to have read the required articles and be
prepared for discussion. The purpose of the discussions is to help you
to think critically about research and theory and the implications of
research and theory for the practice of the information professions.

Read at least the required readings before each class session; dip into
the additional readings as you are able. For each reading, as
appropriate, consider:

-   What are the key point(s) of the reading?
-   What are the strengths and weaknesses of the authors' arguments?
-   What are the implications of the reading for your area of
    professional interest?

As part of your class participation, you are expected to **react to the
evidence summaries** posted by your classmates. Plan to **respond to at
least three** of those during the semester; your responses should be
posted within a few days of the evidence summary presentation in class.

### Evaluation criteria

Class participation will be evaluated on the substance and quality of
your comments, both in class and on the online discussion board.
